# angularjs-starter-pack

A simple template including Gulp, JSPM, ES6 & AngularJS 1.4 to stop dealing with boring stuff and start coding quickly.

---

- [Requirements](#requirements)
- [Setup](#setup)
- [What contains this starter pack?](#this-template-comes-with)
- [Included modules & addons](#the-angularjs-starter-app-works-by-default-with)
- [Documentation](#documentation)
  - [Files organization & best-practices](#files-organization-&-best-practices)
  - [Gulp tasks](#gulp-tasks)
  - [JSPM](#jspm)
  - [ES6 Syntax](#es6-syntax)
  - [`config` module](#config-module)
  - [`API` service](#api-service)
  - [`express` server for production](#express-server-for-production)
  - [Deploy to Heroku](#deploy-to-heroku)
- [Author](#author)
- [License](#license)

## Requirements ##

1. [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)

## Setup ##

1. Fork & clone this repos
2. Go to the project directory
3. `npm install`
4. `gulp serve`
5. Go to `localhost:4000`
6. That's it, you're ready to code!

## This template comes with ##

* Gulp workflow
* ES6 with on-the-fly transpilation (using Babel) in development
* AngularJS 1.4 starter app
* Bundling transpiled JS for prodution
* JSPM
* SASS

## The AngularJS starter app works by default with ##

* `ui-router`
* `lodash`
* `angular-bootstrap`
* A ready to go `config` module to set all your env variables
* A ready to go `API` service to handle API requests quickly & properly
* A ready to go `express server` for production environment

## Documentation ##

### Files organization & best-practices  ###

Todo

### Gulp tasks ###

Todo

### JSPM ###

Todo

### ES6 syntax ###

Todo

### `config` module ###

The `src/app/config.js` module is generated by a `gulp task`, do not update it because it will be erased each time you run `gulp serve`.

In order to use environment variables in your project, you need to create a `.env.json` file in the project root directory. Then, for each variable, you simply need to add it in `gulp/config.js` (there are already 3 variables used by the `API` service).

Gulp will create a `CONFIG` module for you AngularJS app and store all your environment variables as constants inside, then, you'll be able to use them like that:

```
angular
  .module('myModule', [])
  .controller('MyController', [
    'CONFIG',
    (CONFIG) => {
      const myApiUrl = `${CONFIG.API_URL}/${CONFIG.API_VERSION}`;
    }
  ]);
```

### `API` service ###

#### Configuration ####

In order to use the API service, you have to set your API url & version in a environment file.

* First, in the project root directory, create a `.env.json` file (it's already added in the .gitignore).
* Then, add an object with these two variables in the environment file:  
```json
  {
   "API_URL": "http://localhost:3000",
   "API_VERSION": "v1"
  }
```

That's it! The `API` service will find these variables thanks to the `CONFIG` module it takes in dependency and use it for all your API calls.

#### Usage ####

Add `API` as a dependency in all the modules you want to use it. 5 methods are available for this module, they represent the 5 HTTP methods for RESTful APIs.

```
  API.get('/url', {})
  API.post('/url', {})
  API.put('/url', {})
  API.patch('/url', {})
  API.delete('/url')
```

Each of these methods returns a `promise` with the resolved data. There is a full example:

```
angular
  .module('myModule', [])
  .controller('MyModuleController', [
    'API',
    class {
      constructor(API) {
        API.get('/users').then((res) => {
          console.log(res.data.users);
        });
      }
    }
  ]);
```

### `express server` for production ###

Todo

### Deploy to heroku ###

Todo

## Author ##

Anthony Mangiavellano <mangiavellano.anthony@gmail.com>.
 - http://mangiavellano.com/
 - https://www.linkedin.com/in/mangiavellano

## License ##

WTFPL. http://www.wtfpl.net/
